Documentation - Intro (#62)
cardano-scaling/alba: docs/intro.md

> - Assume that, a prover, who has a large collection of data, wants to convince a verifier that their set contains at least a minimum number of elements that satisfy a specific condition, known as a predicate, even if the prover only shares a portion of it.

Reviewer: remove commas: "Assume that a prover who has a large collection ... "

- The Approximate Lower Bound Argument (ALBA) protocol is a new cryptographic primitive that solves this problem efficiently.
- The protocol makes use of a small gap between the size of what the prover actually has and the threshold the verifier knows they have.
- . This gap makes ALBA very efficient, as it reduces the data the prover needs to share, enabling compact and efficient proofs.
- ALBA also supports weighted items, where each item has an assigned importance or weight. This allows the prover to demonstrate that the total weight of their set meets a required threshold, rather than simply the count of items.
- ALBA supports scalable and efficient proof mechanisms in decentralized systems, i.e., voting schemes.

## Overview
- **The protocol**
    - The protocol addresses the problem of succinctly proving knowledge of a large set of verifiable evidence.
    - The prover convinces the verifier by revealing only a subset of this evidence, thus achieving efficiency in both time and communication.

>     - Given a large set $S_p$ that satisfies a predicate $R$ such that $|S_p| \geq n_p$, the prover wants to convince the verifier that the set contains at least $n_f$ elements, where $n_f$ is a threshold strictly smaller than $n_p$.

Author: Of course! Sometimes, it's hard to see that kind of small but super important mistake.

        - This creates an _approximate_ lower bound, as the verifier is convinced that $S_p$ meets or exceeds a threshold, though the actual size might be greater.
    - ALBA achieves efficiency by making use of the gap between the provable lower bound and the actual size, enabling rapid verification without compromising security. The greater the gap, the smaller the proof, and the faster its generation.
- **Historical context**
    - The concept builds on classic approaches in proof systems, where similar challenges in communication complexity were addressed by using probabilistic techniques or interactive protocols.
    - Previous methods were largely theoretical and less efficient for practical, large-scale applications.
- **Design goals**
    - ALBA aims to minimize both proof size and computational load, making it feasible for high-throughput settings like blockchain networks.

>     - The protocol is versatile and adaptable, supporting non-interactive proofs in both the random oracle and common reference string model as well as allowing multi-prover scenario in decentralized environments.

Reviewer 2: I think this could also be more concise. We could say "ALBA works in various settings: unweighted/weighted and centralized/decentralized. It also works in two different models: random oracle and common reference string.". I'm not sure "versatile and adaptable" add anything. "Non-interactive proofs" should be stated somewhere at the beginning of this file.

- It approximates a lower bound on the prover's knowledge which permits a gap between
    - what the prover actually knows and
    - what the verifier is convinced they know.
- This approach enables efficient proofs, with nearly optimal proof sizes in both _noninteractive_ and _distributed_ settings.
- Key applications:
    - Large-scale decentralized signatures,
    - Universal composability in general-purpose succinct proof systems.
- Particularly, it provides communication efficiency in decentralized or blockchain contexts where multiple provers share evidence.

## Overview
- **The protocol**
    - The protocol addresses the problem where a prover possesses a large set of verifiable evidence that would be costly to present in its entirety.
    - The prover's goal is to convince the verifier of their knowledge by revealing only a subset of this evidence, thus achieving efficiency in both time and communication.
    - Given a large set $S_p$ that satisfies a predicate $R$ such that $|S_p| \geq n_p$, the prover wants to convince the verifier that the set contains at least $n_f$ elements, where $n_f$ is a threshold smaller than $n_p$.

>         - This creates an _approximate_ lower bound, as the verifier is convinced that $S_p$ meets or exceeds a threshold, though the actual size might be greater.

Reviewer 3: By definition the actual size might be greater. I am not sure if "approximate" refers actually to the lower bound (as in tight/loose) or the set size (`n_p` can be smaller than `|Sp|`)

Author: Do you have a suggestion to clarify it?

Reviewer: I think @rrtoledo's question is right on spot. The term "lower bound" in the ALBA paper is unclear.  

@tolikzinovyev - can you, please, help clarify this? I am also confused on this point just like @rrtoledo and @curiecrypt ? I've raised this question multiple times but never received a crystal clear answer. I'd appreciate a concise clarification.

Reviewer 2: The lower bound refers to the prover proving that his set has some number of elements (> n_f). It is approximate because the prover's set actually has more elements (n_p) (in other words, the lower bound is loose). I hope this clarifies.

Reviewer 3: @djetchev There could be several reasons why you may not want `n_p =  |S_p|`:
- You are unsure of the size of `|Sp|`: for instance, in the lottery scenario, not all elements are sent, and the actual number depends on the lottery draw since it is probabilistic
- You want to (be sure to) create a proof sooner: you may not want to wait to have collected all elements of the dataset. If you start generating the proof with `n < n_p` (and `n > n_f` of course) elements, the probability of generating a proof may still be low!

    - ALBA achieves efficiency by allowing a small gap between the provable lower bound and the actual knowledge, enabling rapid verification without compromising security.
- **Historical context**
    - The concept builds on classic approaches in proof systems, where similar challenges in communication complexity were addressed by using probabilistic techniques or interactive protocols.
    - Previous methods were largely theoretical and less efficient for practical, large-scale applications.
- **Design goals**
    - ALBA aims to minimize both proof size and computational load, making it feasible for high-throughput settings like blockchain networks.

>     - The protocol is versatile, supporting both noninteractive proofs in a random oracle model and multi-prover scenarios in decentralized environments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - The protocol is versatile and adaptable, supporting non-interactive proofs in both the random oracle and common reference string model as well as allowing multi-prover scenarii in decentralized environments.
```

>         - This makes it adaptable for contexts where multiple provers collaborate, such as a blockchain where many parties collectively validate transactions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - This makes it of special interest for multi-party environment, such as a blockchain where many parties collectively validate transactions.
```

- **Setup and interaction models**

>     - Noninteractive Model:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Non-interactive Model:
```

>         - ALBA provides a noninteractive proof (_NIROPK_) in the random oracle model, where the verifier can extract knowledge directly from observing queries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - ALBA provides a non-interactive proof of knowledge in the random oracle model (_NIROPK_), where the verifier can extract knowledge directly from observing queries.
```

- A trivial solution to this problem would be for the prover to provide the entire dataset or all sequence elements to the verifier. However, this approach is inefficient due to the large size of the data and communication costs.
- The Approximate Lower Bound Argument (ALBA) protocol is a new cryptographic primitive that solves this problem efficiently.
- ALBA is designed to prove knowledge efficiently by leveraging an *approximate lower bound*.
  - This approach establishes a gap between the prover's actual knowledge and the threshold needed to convince the verifier.
  - The gap enables compact proofs and efficient verification.
- ALBA supports both centralized and decentralized setups, as well as weighted and unweighted datasets, making it useful for applications such as blockchain protocols, voting systems, and multisignature schemes.

## Overview
- **The Protocol**
  - The protocol addresses the challenge of succinctly proving knowledge of a large set of verifiable evidence.
  - The prover convinces the verifier by revealing only a subset of this evidence, achieving efficiency in both proof size and communication.

>   - Given a large set $S_p$ that satisfies a predicate $R$ such that $|S_p| \geq n_p$, the prover aims to convince the verifier that the set contains more than $n_f$ elements, where $n_f$ is a threshold strictly smaller than $n_p$.

Author: `cargo doc` doesn't support natively `katex`. We resolve it by adding a custom header. This header should be passed as a flag while compiling the docs.
Also, I cannot locate the flags in the `Cargo.toml` because, the key `build` is not recognized by it. So, I put it in a `config` file. 
I guess you are now able to run the command `cargo doc --open` and render the Latex formulas.

>   - Given a large set $S_p$ that satisfies a predicate $R$ such that $|S_p| \geq n_p$, the prover aims to convince the verifier that the set contains more than $n_f$ elements, where $n_f$ is a threshold strictly smaller than $n_p$.

Reviewer 2: Works now, thanks! Could you remove the flag from `Cargo.toml` then?

>   - Given a large set $S_p$ that satisfies a predicate $R$ such that $|S_p| \geq n_p$, the prover aims to convince the verifier that the set contains more than $n_f$ elements, where $n_f$ is a threshold strictly smaller than $n_p$.

Author: I think the following lines in `Cargo.toml` are still required:
```rust
[package.metadata.docs.rs]
rustdoc-args = [ "--html-in-header", "./docs/assets/katex-header.html" ]
```
since it is not a flag but an argument.

I couldn't compile the documentation either when I removed the below code from `Cargo.toml` or when I moved it to `config`.
I will try to understand its features and let you know.

>   - Given a large set $S_p$ that satisfies a predicate $R$ such that $|S_p| \geq n_p$, the prover aims to convince the verifier that the set contains more than $n_f$ elements, where $n_f$ is a threshold strictly smaller than $n_p$.

Reviewer 2: Weird, I'm able to compile docs when I remove this stuff from `Cargo.toml`.

    - This establishes an _approximate_ lower bound because the prover's proof guarantees the presence of more than $n_f$ elements, but the actual set size $|S_p|$ is typically greater. The term "approximate" reflects that the bound is loose rather than tight.
    - $n_p$ might be smaller than $|S_p|$ for various practical reasons:
      - *Uncertainty about* $|S_p|$: In scenarios like probabilistic lotteries, not all elements of the set are sent, and the actual number depends on the lottery draw.

>       - *Timeliness*: The prover may want to generate a proof as soon as possible without waiting to collect all elements in the dataset. Even with $n < n_p$ (and $n > n_f$), there is a chance of successfully generating a proof.

Reviewer 3: Gamze defined a set of size |Sp|, and we use Alba with np <= Sp. She calls `n` the number of elements the aggregator receives and talks about the case where  the aggregator only has received`n<np` and wants to compute the certificate (say there is a timeout). She says there is still a probability of generating a proof.

In the case `|Sp| >=n > n_p`, we empirically saw that we can generate a proof faster (but the proof is bigger than just setting `n=n_p` indeed.

The case `n<n_f` is not interesting, soundness garantees we won't be able to generate a proof.

> - Assume that a prover has a large collection of data. They want to convince a verifier that their set contains at least a minimum number of elements satisfying a specific condition, known as a predicate. This remains true even if the prover only shares a portion of their data.

Reviewer: This paragraph seems to be very similar to the opening paragraph of `README.md` - is this intentional?

- A trivial solution to this problem would be for the prover to provide the entire dataset or the minimum number of distinct elements to the verifier. However, this approach is inefficient due to the large size of the data and communication costs.
- The Approximate Lower Bound Argument (ALBA) protocol is a new cryptographic primitive that solves this problem efficiently.
- ALBA is designed to prove knowledge efficiently by leveraging an *approximate lower bound*.

>   - This approach requires a gap between the prover's actual knowledge and the threshold needed to convince the verifier.

Reviewer: Maybe revise this sentence- what does `requires a gap between the prover's actual ... ` mean exactly? It may be better to say `This approach exploits the gap between ...`

  - The gap enables compact proofs and efficient verification.
- ALBA supports both centralized and decentralized setups, as well as weighted and unweighted datasets, making it useful for applications such as blockchain protocols, voting systems, and multisignature schemes.

## Overview
- **The Protocol**
  - The protocol addresses the challenge of succinctly proving knowledge of a large set of verifiable evidence.
  - The prover convinces the verifier by revealing only a subset of this evidence, achieving efficiency in both proof size and communication.
  - Given a large set $S_p$ that satisfies a predicate $R$ such that $|S_p| \geq n_p$, the prover aims to convince the verifier that the set contains more than $n_f$ elements, where $n_f$ is a threshold strictly smaller than $n_p$.
    - This establishes an _approximate_ lower bound because the prover's proof guarantees the presence of more than $n_f$ elements, but the actual set size $|S_p|$ is typically greater. The term "approximate" reflects that the bound is loose rather than tight.

>     - $n_p$ might be smaller than $|S_p|$ for various practical reasons:

Reviewer: The points below are very good - great job on explaining this!

      - *Uncertainty about* $|S_p|$: In scenarios like probabilistic lotteries, not all elements of the set are sent, and the actual number depends on the lottery draw.

>       - *Timeliness*: The prover may want to generate a proof as soon as possible without waiting to collect all elements in the dataset. Even with $n < n_p$ (and $n > n_f$), there is a chance of successfully generating a proof.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      - *Timeliness*: The prover may want to generate a proof as soon as possible without waiting to collect all elements in the dataset. Even with $n < n_p$ (and $n > n_f$) elements, there is a chance of successfully generating a proof. 
```

>   - ALBA achieves efficiency by leveraging the gap between the provable lower bound ($n_f$) and the actual set size ($|S_p|$). This gap enables compact proofs and rapid verification without compromising security. The larger the ratio $n_p / n_f$, the smaller the proof and the faster its generation.

Reviewer 3: I think we shouldn't talk about the gap between nf and |Sp| but nf and np only
